README.md, before:

# Patternfly Seed

Patternfly Seed is an open source build scaffolding utility for web apps. The primary purpose of this project is to give developers a jump start when creating new projects that will use patternfly. A secondary purpose of this project is to serve as a reference for how to configure various aspects of an application that uses patternfly, webpack, react, typescript, etc.

Out of the box you'll get an app layout with chrome (header/sidebar), routing, build pipeline, test suite, and some code quality tools. Basically, all the essentials.

<img width="1058" alt="Out of box dashboard view of patternfly seed" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0227b366-67f1-4df8-8d92-e8e95d6e08b3" />

## Quick-start

```bash
git clone https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react-seed
cd patternfly-react-seed
npm install && npm run start:dev
```
## Development scripts
```sh
# Install development/build dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run start:dev

# Run a production build (outputs to "dist" dir)
npm run build

# Run the test suite
npm run test

# Run the test suite with coverage
npm run test:coverage

# Run the linter
npm run lint

# Run the code formatter
npm run format

# Launch a tool to inspect the bundle size
npm run bundle-profile:analyze

# Start the express server (run a production build first)
npm run start
```

## Configurations
* [TypeScript Config](./tsconfig.json)
* [Webpack Config](./webpack.common.js)
* [Jest Config](./jest.config.js)
* [Editor Config](./.editorconfig)

## Raster image support

To use an image asset that's shipped with PatternFly core, you'll prefix the paths with "@assets". `@assets` is an alias for the PatternFly assets directory in node_modules.

For example:
```js
import imgSrc from '@assets/images/g_sizing.png';
<img src={imgSrc} alt="Some image" />
```

You can use a similar technique to import assets from your local app, just prefix the paths with "@app". `@app` is an alias for the main src/app directory.

```js
import loader from '@app/assets/images/loader.gif';
<img src={loader} alt="Content loading" />
```

## Vector image support
Inlining SVG in the app's markup is also possible.

```js
import logo from '@app/assets/images/logo.svg';
<span dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{__html: logo}} />
```

You can also use SVG when applying background images with CSS. To do this, your SVG's must live under a `bgimages` directory (this directory name is configurable in [webpack.common.js](./webpack.common.js#L5)). This is necessary because you may need to use SVG's in several other context (inline images, fonts, icons, etc.) and so we need to be able to differentiate between these usages so the appropriate loader is invoked.
```css
body {
  background: url(./assets/bgimages/img_avatar.svg);
}
```

## Adding custom CSS
When importing CSS from a third-party package for the first time, you may encounter the error `Module parse failed: Unexpected token... You may need an appropriate loader to handle this file typ...`. You need to register the path to the stylesheet directory in [stylePaths.js](./stylePaths.js). We specify these explicitly for performance reasons to avoid webpack needing to crawl through the entire node_modules directory when parsing CSS modules.

## Code quality tools
* For accessibility compliance, we use [react-axe](https://github.com/dequelabs/react-axe)
* To keep our bundle size in check, we use [webpack-bundle-analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer)
* To keep our code formatting in check, we use [prettier](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
* To keep our code logic and test coverage in check, we use [jest](https://github.com/facebook/jest)
* To ensure code styles remain consistent, we use [eslint](https://eslint.org/)

## Multi environment configuration
This project uses [dotenv-webpack](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv-webpack) for exposing environment variables to your code. Either export them at the system level like `export MY_ENV_VAR=http://dev.myendpoint.com && npm run start:dev` or simply drop a `.env` file in the root that contains your key-value pairs like below:

```sh
ENV_1=http://1.myendpoint.com
ENV_2=http://2.myendpoint.com
```


With that in place, you can use the values in your code like `console.log(process.env.ENV_1);`

Commit message:

feat: updated dependencies and add guidance for ai enabled development

README.md, after:

# Patternfly Seed

Patternfly Seed is an open source build scaffolding utility for web apps. The primary purpose of this project is to give developers a jump start when creating new projects that will use patternfly. A secondary purpose of this project is to serve as a reference for how to configure various aspects of an application that uses patternfly, webpack, react, typescript, etc.

Out of the box you'll get an app layout with chrome (header/sidebar), routing, build pipeline, test suite, and some code quality tools. Basically, all the essentials.

<img width="1058" alt="Out of box dashboard view of patternfly seed" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0227b366-67f1-4df8-8d92-e8e95d6e08b3" />

## Quick-start

```bash
git clone https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react-seed
cd patternfly-react-seed
npm install && npm run start:dev
```
## Development scripts
```sh
# Install development/build dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run start:dev

# Run a production build (outputs to "dist" dir)
npm run build

# Run the test suite
npm run test

# Run the test suite with coverage
npm run test:coverage

# Run the linter
npm run lint

# Run the code formatter
npm run format

# Launch a tool to inspect the bundle size
npm run bundle-profile:analyze

# Start the express server (run a production build first)
npm run start
```

## Configurations
* [TypeScript Config](./tsconfig.json)
* [Webpack Config](./webpack.common.js)
* [Jest Config](./jest.config.js)
* [Editor Config](./.editorconfig)

## Raster image support

To use an image asset that's shipped with PatternFly core, you'll prefix the paths with "@assets". `@assets` is an alias for the PatternFly assets directory in node_modules.

For example:
```js
import imgSrc from '@assets/images/g_sizing.png';
<img src={imgSrc} alt="Some image" />
```

You can use a similar technique to import assets from your local app, just prefix the paths with "@app". `@app` is an alias for the main src/app directory.

```js
import loader from '@app/assets/images/loader.gif';
<img src={loader} alt="Content loading" />
```

## Vector image support
Inlining SVG in the app's markup is also possible.

```js
import logo from '@app/assets/images/logo.svg';
<span dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{__html: logo}} />
```

You can also use SVG when applying background images with CSS. To do this, your SVG's must live under a `bgimages` directory (this directory name is configurable in [webpack.common.js](./webpack.common.js#L5)). This is necessary because you may need to use SVG's in several other context (inline images, fonts, icons, etc.) and so we need to be able to differentiate between these usages so the appropriate loader is invoked.
```css
body {
  background: url(./assets/bgimages/img_avatar.svg);
}
```

## Adding custom CSS
When importing CSS from a third-party package for the first time, you may encounter the error `Module parse failed: Unexpected token... You may need an appropriate loader to handle this file typ...`. You need to register the path to the stylesheet directory in [stylePaths.js](./stylePaths.js). We specify these explicitly for performance reasons to avoid webpack needing to crawl through the entire node_modules directory when parsing CSS modules.

## Code quality tools
* For accessibility compliance, we use [react-axe](https://github.com/dequelabs/react-axe)
* To keep our bundle size in check, we use [webpack-bundle-analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer)
* To keep our code formatting in check, we use [prettier](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
* To keep our code logic and test coverage in check, we use [jest](https://github.com/facebook/jest)
* To ensure code styles remain consistent, we use [eslint](https://eslint.org/)

## AI Documentation & Development Rules

This project includes an [`ai-documentation`](./ai-documentation/README.md) directory designed primarily for use by AI agents in AI-enabled IDEs (such as Cursor, Claude, and others). These files provide essential rules, guidelines, and best practices for building web applications with PatternFly React, enabling AI coding assistants to:

- Offer context-aware suggestions and enforce consistent component architecture and styling standards
- Guide developers to use PatternFly v6 components and utility classes
- Promote accessibility and state management best practices
- Reference troubleshooting tips and specialized rules (charts, chatbot, etc.)

**How to use:**
- If you are using an AI-enabled IDE, the AI agent will automatically leverage the [AI Documentation & Rules](./ai-documentation/README.md) to assist you as you develop.
- Human contributors can also consult these files directly for detailed standards and examples, but the primary audience is AI coding assistants.

By following these rules—either directly or via your AI assistant—you'll ensure your app is maintainable, accessible, and consistent with PatternFly best practices.

## Multi environment configuration
This project uses [dotenv-webpack](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv-webpack) for exposing environment variables to your code. Either export them at the system level like `export MY_ENV_VAR=http://dev.myendpoint.com && npm run start:dev` or simply drop a `.env` file in the root that contains your key-value pairs like below:

```sh
ENV_1=http://1.myendpoint.com
ENV_2=http://2.myendpoint.com
```


With that in place, you can use the values in your code like `console.log(process.env.ENV_1);`
